Add python agent release notes for 10.0.0 - PLEASE MERGE SEPTEMBER 27th 2024 AM (#18735)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/python-release-notes/python-agent-100000.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: I added one more PR into this release since it's a bug fix for a customer so we will want to add that into the release notes as well. Here's the PR: https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-python-agent/pull/1222

subject: 'Python agent'
releaseDate: '2024-08-08'
version: 10.0.0
downloadLink: 'https://pypi.python.org/pypi/newrelic'

> features: ['Remove Python2.7 support', 'Add Kafka server metric', 'Add capturing of memcache host and port', 'Add support for kafka-python-ng', 'Add support for uvicorn_workers', 'Automatically detect function signature in LangChasimilarity search', 'Add environment variable for GC runtime metrics']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
features: ['Remove Python2.7 support', 'Add Kafka server metric', 'Add capturing of memcache host and port', 'Add support for kafka-python-ng', 'Add support for uvicorn_workers', 'Automatically detect function signature in LangChain similarity search', 'Add environment variable for GC runtime metrics']
```

bugs: ['Fix bug in graphql entity name detection', 'Fix issue in LangChain where a thread is started and the transaction context is lost', 'Fix parsing of request and response when running OpenAI via LangChain', 'Instrument new path to OpenAI chat class', 'Fix pyscopg v3 API incompatibilities']
security: []
---

## Notes

> This release of the Python agent drops support for Python2.7, adds a Kafka server metric, capturing of memcache host and port, support for [kafka-python-ng](https://pypi.org/project/kafka-python-ng/), support for [uvicorn_worker](https://pypi.org/project/uvicorn-worker/), an environment variable for GC runtime metrics, and automatically detects the function signature in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) `similarity_search`. It also fixes a bug in [graphql](https://pypi.org/project/graphql/) entity name detection, an issue in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) where a thread is started and the transaction context is lost, parsing of the request and response when running [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) via [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/), [pyscopg](https://pypi.org/project/psycopg/) v3 API incompatibilities, and instruments a new path to the [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) chat class.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a big enough list that we should use bullet points.  Something like this:

This release of the Python agent drops support for Python2.7 and adds the following:

- a Kafka server metric
- `host` and `port` attributes for memcache
- support for [kafka-python-ng](https://pypi.org/project/kafka-python-ng/)
- support for [uvicorn_worker](https://pypi.org/project/uvicorn-worker/)
- an environment variable for garbage collector (GC) runtime metrics
- automatic detection for the function signature in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/)'s `similarity_search`
- updated support for [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/)'s chat class
- a fix for a bug in [graphql](https://pypi.org/project/graphql/)'s entity name detection
- a fix for transaction context propagation loss in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) in the case of a new thread
- parsing of the request and response when running [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) via [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/)
- a fix for [pyscopg](https://pypi.org/project/psycopg/) v3 API incompatibilities

> This release of the Python agent drops support for Python2.7, adds a Kafka server metric, capturing of memcache host and port, support for [kafka-python-ng](https://pypi.org/project/kafka-python-ng/), support for [uvicorn_worker](https://pypi.org/project/uvicorn-worker/), an environment variable for GC runtime metrics, and automatically detects the function signature in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) `similarity_search`. It also fixes a bug in [graphql](https://pypi.org/project/graphql/) entity name detection, an issue in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) where a thread is started and the transaction context is lost, parsing of the request and response when running [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) via [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/), [pyscopg](https://pypi.org/project/psycopg/) v3 API incompatibilities, and instruments a new path to the [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) chat class.

Reviewer: It looks like Python2.7 is officially written out as Python 2.7 with a space between the language and version so we may want to update that throughout these release notes: (ex: https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7/)

 
Install the agent using `easy_install/pip/distribute` via the [Python Package Index](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/newrelic) or download it directly from the [New Relic download site](https://download.newrelic.com/python_agent/release).

## New features

* Add Kafka server metric

  * Adds a metric to capture the host and port information for Kafka entities on both consumers and producers. This metric allows the UI to link AWS information with AWS MSK entities in the service map.

> * Add capturing of memcache host and port

Reviewer 2: Use backticks on the words `host` and `port` since those are the actual attribute names

>   * Adds capturing of host and port info on memcache libraries; bmemcached, aiomcache, and pymemcache. This allows the UI to link AWS information with AWS memcache entities in the service map.

Reviewer 2: We should use backticks on the words `host` and `port` but also, tweak the first sentence to say this:

Adds capturing of `host` and `port` info on the following [memcache](https://pypi.org/project/memcache/) libraries: [bmemcached](https://pypi.org/project/python-binary-memcached/), [aiomcache](https://pypi.org/project/aiomcache/), and [pymemcache](https://pypi.org/project/pymemcache/).

(changes made: backticks, colon to denote list instead of semicolon, and pypi links to libraries)

* Add support for [kafka-python-ng](https://pypi.org/project/kafka-python-ng/)

  * [kafka-python](https://pypi.org/project/kafka-python/) has been released under a new name: [kafka-python-ng](https://pypi.org/project/kafka-python-ng/). This continues to support kafka-python under the new package name.

* Add support for [uvicorn_worker](https://pypi.org/project/uvicorn-worker/)

  * `uvicorn.workers` has been moved to a separate package called `uvicorn_worker`. This checks for both names of the module when reporting dispatcher information.

* Automatically detect function signature in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) `similarity_search`

  * Automatically detect the function signature when wrapping `similarity_search`.

* Add environment variable for GC runtime metrics

>   * GC runtime metircs can now be enabled/disabled via the following environment variable: NEW_RELIC_GC_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED. 

Reviewer 2: Should we write out the word "garbage collector" in the description?  On the small chance that someone searching the docs might not realize immediately what GC is?

Also, we should add backticks to the environment variable name

## Deprecations

* Remove Python2.7 Support

>   * Removes compatibility with Python2.7. Also removes instrumentations that were only supported on Python2.7.

Reviewer 2: Removes compatibility with Python2.7. Also removes support for the following libraries that were only supported on Python2.7:

- [umemcache](https://pypi.org/project/umemcache/)
- [oursql](https://pypi.org/project/oursql/)
- [pywapi](https://pypi.org/project/pywapi/)
- [Pylons](https://pypi.org/project/Pylons/)
- [web2py](https://pypi.org/project/web2py/)
- [weberror](https://pypi.org/project/WebError/)

## Bug fixes

* Fix bug in graphql entity name detection

>   * Previously, the graphql channel entity name would be missing the first couple characters. This bug has been fixed.

Reviewer 2: Is this the PR this is referencing: https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-python-agent/pull/1206--if so, this is gRPC and we should change that in the summary, metadata, and this section

Assuming this is for gRPC, let's change the sentence to something like this:
Previously, the gRPC channel entity name was missing the first character(s) in specific cases. This bug has been fixed.

Author: OMG Yes that is the PR and I'm special.

* Fix issue in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) where a thread is started and the transaction context is lost

  * Previously, when calling some chains like retreival chains, the transaction would be lost and instrumentation would be broken because a thread would be started by [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/). This has been fixed so the transaction context is passed across threads and instrumentation still works for retreival chains.

* Fix parsing of request and response when running [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) via [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/)

  * Previously, when running [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) via [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) the request and response were a different format and were not being recorded. This issue has been fixed.

* Instrument new path to [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) chat class

>     * [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) moved the ChatCompletions class to a different path which prevented the instrumentation from being applied. This has been fixed.

Reviewer 2: Add backticks to `ChatCompletions` class name

---
subject: 'Python agent'
releaseDate: '2024-09-26'
version: 10.0.0
downloadLink: 'https://pypi.python.org/pypi/newrelic'

> features: ['Remove Python 2.7 support', 'Add Kafka server metric', 'Add capturing of memcache host and port', 'Add support for kafka-python-ng', 'Add support for uvicorn_workers', 'Automatically detect function signature in LangChasimilarity search', 'Add environment variable for GC runtime metrics']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
features: ['Remove Python 2.7 support', 'Add Kafka server metric', 'Add capturing of memcache host and port', 'Add support for kafka-python-ng', 'Add support for uvicorn_workers', 'Automatically detect function signature in LangChain similarity search', 'Add environment variable for garbage collection runtime metrics']
```

  * [kafka-python](https://pypi.org/project/kafka-python/) has been released under a new name: [kafka-python-ng](https://pypi.org/project/kafka-python-ng/). This continues to support kafka-python under the new package name.

* Add support for [uvicorn_worker](https://pypi.org/project/uvicorn-worker/)

  * `uvicorn.workers` has been moved to a separate package called `uvicorn_worker`. This checks for both names of the module when reporting dispatcher information.

* Automatically detect function signature in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) `similarity_search`

  * Automatically detect the function signature when wrapping `similarity_search`.

* Add environment variable for garbage collector runtime metrics

  * Garbage collector runtime metircs can now be enabled/disabled via the following environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_GC_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED`. 

## Bug fixes

* Fix bug in gRPC entity name detection

  * Previously, the gRPC channel entity name was missing the first character(s) in specific cases. This bug has been fixed.

* Fix issue in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) where a thread is started and the transaction context is lost

>   * Previously, when calling some chains like retreival chains, the transaction would be lost and instrumentation would be broken because a thread would be started by [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/). This has been fixed so the transaction context is passed across threads and instrumentation still works for retreival chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Previously, when calling some chains like retrieval chains, the transaction would be lost and instrumentation would be broken because a thread would be started by [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/). This has been fixed so the transaction context is passed across threads and instrumentation still works for retrieval chains.
```

* Fix parsing of request and response when running [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) via [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/)

  * Previously, when running [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) via [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) the request and response were a different format and were not being recorded. This issue has been fixed.

> * Instrument new path to [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) chat class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Instrument new path to [OpenAI](https://pypi.org/project/openai/) chat completion class
```
